Add CORB, CORP and Partitioned Caches Defense Articles to the Wiki (#6)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/defenses/opt-in/corp.md

+++
title = "Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy"
description = ""
date = "2020-07-21"
category = "defenses"
menu = "main"
+++

## Explanation

> Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy (CORP) response header is a complement of [Cross-Origin Read Blocking]({{< ref "../browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}}) (CORB). CORP allows applications to **opt in to protection** in resources that might not be covered automatically by CORB[^1]. Applications can define which origins are allowed to read their resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy (CORP) response header is a complement of [Cross-Origin Read Blocking]({{< ref "../browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}}) (CORB). CORP allows applications to **opt into the protection** for resources that might not be covered automatically by CORB[^1]. Applications can define which origins are allowed to read their resources.
```

> Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy (CORP) response header is a complement of [Cross-Origin Read Blocking]({{< ref "../browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}}) (CORB). CORP allows applications to **opt into the protection** for resources that might not be covered automatically by CORB[^1]. Applications can define which origins are allowed to read their resources.

Reviewer: I would not say that it is a complement of CORB, it can exist without it (like it is in ff).

Author: I think I got this ideai in the official documentation of mdn, but I agree with you. I think the idea was saying CORP complements CORB because it covers more resources. I changed the language to "enforces" CORB and added a bit more context on the differences between both. Fixed in 22cf2cc. Please take a better look to the whole article because I changed a lot of stuff.

+++
title = "Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy"
description = ""
date = "2020-07-21"
category = "defenses"
menu = "main"
+++

Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy (CORP) response header enforces [Cross-Origin Read Blocking]({{< ref "../browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}}) (CORB) as it provides more protection by covering more resources [^1]. Both protect against speculative side-channel attacks (Spectre) by preventing attackers from loading certain cross-origin resources in elements like `script`, `img`, `video`, etc. Unlike CORB, this protection is enforced in the browser only if an application **opts into the protection**. Applications can define which groups of origins (same-site, same-origin, cross-site) are allowed to read their resources.

If an application sets a certain resource CORP Header as `same-site` or `same-origin`, an attacker origin is incapable of reading that resource because is not part of the CORP group of origins.

{{< hint info >}}

> [Cross-Origin Read Blocking (CORB)]({{< ref "../browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}}), a similar protection, is an no-opt protection based on heuristics to prevent attackers from loading certain cross-origin resources in unlikely scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Cross-Origin Read Blocking (CORB)]({{< ref "../browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}}), a similar protection, is based on heuristics to prevent attackers from loading certain cross-origin resources in specific scenarios, and it is active by default on browsers that implement it.
```

Reviewer: @terjanq @manuelvsousa does this seem ok to you?

Author: Yes.

Reviewer 2: Yes, better.

+++
title = "Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy"
description = ""
date = "2020-07-21"
category = "defenses"
menu = "main"
+++

> Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy (CORP) response header enforces [Cross-Origin Read Blocking]({{< ref "../browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}}) (CORB) as it provides more protection by covering more resources [^1]. Both protect against speculative side-channel attacks (Spectre) by preventing attackers from loading certain cross-origin resources in elements like `script`, `img`, `video`, etc. Unlike CORB, this protection is enforced in the browser if an application **opts into the protection**. Applications can define which groups of origins (same-site, same-origin, cross-site) are allowed to read their resources.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the highlight here: [...] Unlike CORB, this protection [...] **opts into the protection* 

Is there `only` missing? 
[...] this protection is [**only**] enforced [...]

Author: I see why you might consider this confusing. We assume **100%** CORB is not an opt-in mechanism. That is why only is a bit implicit. 

"Unlike CORB" [which does not have an opt-in] "this protection is enforced in the browser if an application **opts into the protection**"

Reviewer 2: I would still argue that sentence doesn't make much sense without `only`. 

The reader needs to know beforehand what does `CORB` do to understand it. We can't assume that the reader already knows that. 

The very same sentence, without only, could also mean:
**This protection is enforced in the browser even if an application doesn't opt into it**, because implication is in the conditional is in the wrong direction. The original sentence only says that if application opts into the protection, then CROP will be enabled. It doesn't say anything what happens if application doesn't opt in. The reader needs to not only know what `CORB` is, but also know the definition provided by another article, which in my opinion is intuitive and against what other specs say about it.

Author: I see you point, and I agree. Fixed in bcdce5b

> The reader needs to know beforehand what does CORB do to understand it. We can't assume that the reader already knows that.

I would like to add that I am okay with this. In this particular example CORB and CORP are directly connected and making comparisons will help the reader once it has an idea about both.

Reviewer 2: Unlike CORB is fine, as long as it's clear what CORP does. And after bcdce5b I think the implication is clear.

If an application sets a certain resource CORP Header as `same-site` or `same-origin`, an attacker origin is incapable of reading that resource because is not part of the CORP group of origins.

{{< hint info >}}
Firefox is the only browser with CORP deployed.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint info >}}

> [Cross-Origin Read Blocking (CORB)]({{< ref "../browser-intrinsic/corb.md" >}}), a similar protection, is an no-opt protection based on heuristics to prevent attackers from loading certain cross-origin resources in unlikely scenarios.

Reviewer 2: It can be opt-in via `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff`

Author: I don't agree that this is an opt-in for CORB. 

Firstly `nosniff` existed before CORB and is used for other things. It largely adopted on the web and I am sure frameworks who enforce it are not thinking about opting in to CORB. We should see it as something CORB had to consider to implement its heuristics successfully.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the decision. Does `X-Content-Type-Option: nosniff` enforces CORB, even if the heuristics fail to determine the correct content-type of the response? If the answer is yes, this can be used to enforce the CORB, and therefore make it an opt-in mechanism through it. 

From the [spec](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/corb-for-developers):
> [...] as well as a "X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff" [...] These headers ensure Chrome can identify the resources as needing protection, without depending on the contents of the resources.

Just because `nosniff` existed before `CORB` doesn't mean that `nosniff` cannot be used as an opt-in mechanism... And also just because it serves multiple-purpose, does not mean that cannot be used. 

In the MDN [XFO](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/X-Content-Type-Options) it also says that it **enables** CORB

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11320896/92411045-92bbb000-f146-11ea-9639-863c273b0fa9.png)

Author: I see your point, and I have to say there is thin line here to consider this an opt-in or no-opt. CORB has 2 ways to work properly:
> You set `nosniff` and `Content-Type`, CORB is happy and will use the given CT (no matter what)
> You don't and CORB will do its best to infer the CT. (CORB will work and **you did not opted-in**)

For the first alternative, I see those headers as a **requirement** for CORB to work properly in that alternative. Also, setting those headers have a bigger implication when compared to just opt-in to CORB. It just helps CORB doing a better job since it carries important information.

For the second alternative, you don't opt-in and you get served by CORB (when possible).

Overall I feel very insecure to tell a developer this is an opt-in to CORB when in fact setting those headers have a much bigger implication, like making sure you don't break your app, you are protecting yourself from MIME Type Confusion and getting rid of unauthorized hotlinking.

> In the MDN XFO it also says that it enables CORB

I think the "enabled" is unfortunate, because CORB can be enforced even if you don't set those headers. I would focus on the points I presented to the first alternative above.

This is my take on this subject. Tell me if this makes sense to you.

I would like to see what @empijei has to say about this as well.

Reviewer 2: I see your point. CORB is neither `opt-in` nor `not opt-out` (you can opt out by puting `<!--` at the begining of the file). CORB is enabled by default, but you can **opt into** a stricter version of it which works much more reliably than heuristics. 

> Overall I feel very insecure to tell a developer this is an opt-in to CORB when in fact setting those headers have a much bigger implication.

I don't see any problem with mentioning both pros and cons of enabling the feature. In fact I think **we should definitely do it**. I don't agree with the reasoning that we should hide the information from the developers to not confuse them, which in my opinion only raises much more confusion since it's against all the specs available on the Internet.

The worst thing we can do is to say *CORB is enabled by default so there is nothing to worry about* because it's totally untrue. Default CORB is very unrestrictive and only protects "safe" resources, to not break the web. `nosniff` is intended to extend it to more resources to make it more reliable.

This is a simple [PoC](https://jsfiddle.net/terjanq/74oLwfy0/), that shows how the heuristics are inaccurate. Seems unrealistic to put `<?xml?>` at the beginning of the HTML file? Look at https://mbasic.facebook.com 

> CORB explainer carefully excluded opt-in from the text

Searching for `nosniff` in the explainer yields 21 results, while `opt` yields 4. 

This is something that we also could mention: 
> CORB opt-in header. To protect resources that normally may be embedded cross-origin, a server might explicitly opt into CORB with a HTTP response header. This would make it possible to CORB-protect resources like images or JavaScript (including JSONP).
[lukasza@chromium.org] Currently considered CORB opt-in signals include:

> From-Origin: or Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: header - see https://github.com/whatwg/fetch/issues/687
Isolate-Me header - see https://github.com/WICG/isolation

BTW. this is a great explainer! I didn't see it before. We definitely should add it to references, and I don't think I've seen it mentioned anywhere in the article.

Going back to the initial comment regarding `an no-opt protection`, can't we just use different wording that do not mention `opt`? Can't we just say that a basic version of it is enabled by default, but can be increased with `nosniff` as mentioned in the CORB article? That should just clear things out.
